README.md, before:

# Intro

OK folks, here I am just keeping all the things I am teaching to my bro (Mohammad Sajad Barati) and you can see our meetings in YouTube or Aparat depending on where you are. BTW do not forget to share, like, give a star on GitHub and leave comments so that I can reflect on them.

BTW these videos are all in Persian since my younger brother's English proficiency is not that great (ATM). Also these video are in playlist to make it easier for you guys to watch them in the right order.

# GitHub Pages

I also activated Pages for this repo and listed a couple of project we've done in this tut + some that I deliberately did not do so that you can have something to practice on. You can check it out here: https://kasir-barati.github.io/html-css/

# YouTube

https://youtu.be/gxVLDnIrStA?si=nEaOVxOsz04Bn2j8

# Aparat

https://www.aparat.com/v/nmw2zm2

# Other tuts from others:

Some complementary material you can use next to this tut or any other tut:

- https://www.w3schools.com/Html.
- https://www.w3schools.com/CSS.
- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML.
- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS.

> [!CAUTION]
>
> These are just complementary resources. **Your number 1 resource should be their official doc like explained in this tutorial**.
>
> - https://html.spec.whatwg.org/.
> - https://drafts.csswg.org/.

## Persian

This section is subject to change in time since I am not sure how good each one is.

1. [وبینار آشنایی با html, css](https://www.aparat.com/v/a955bd8).
2. [آموزش پروژه محور طراحی وبسایت با HTML و CSS](https://www.aparat.com/playlist/5745849).
   - This one is recorded in 3 sessions. Make sure to watch them in the correct order :wink:.

## English

- [Understanding HTML and CSS by Anthony Alicea](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OjbM757s3vU)

Commit message:

chore: changed persian HTML/CSS course link

README.md, after:

# Intro

OK folks, here I am just keeping all the things I am teaching to my bro (Mohammad Sajad Barati) and you can see our meetings in YouTube or Aparat depending on where you are. BTW do not forget to share, like, give a star on GitHub and leave comments so that I can reflect on them.

BTW these videos are all in Persian since my younger brother's English proficiency is not that great (ATM). Also these video are in playlist to make it easier for you guys to watch them in the right order.

# GitHub Pages

I also activated Pages for this repo and listed a couple of project we've done in this tut + some that I deliberately did not do so that you can have something to practice on. You can check it out here: https://kasir-barati.github.io/html-css/

# YouTube

https://youtu.be/gxVLDnIrStA?si=nEaOVxOsz04Bn2j8

# Aparat

https://www.aparat.com/v/nmw2zm2

# Other tuts from others:

Some complementary material you can use next to this tut or any other tut:

- https://www.w3schools.com/Html.
- https://www.w3schools.com/CSS.
- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML.
- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS.

> [!CAUTION]
>
> These are just complementary resources. **Your number 1 resource should be their official doc like explained in this tutorial**.
>
> - https://html.spec.whatwg.org/.
> - https://drafts.csswg.org/.

## Persian

This section is subject to change in time since I am not sure how good each one is.

1. I have found these two as well but have not checked how accurate and good he is teaching them:

   - HTML: [https://turbolearn.ir/course/HTML-tutorial](https://turbolearn.ir/course/HTML-tutorial)
   - CSS: [https://turbolearn.ir/course/CSS-tutorial](https://turbolearn.ir/course/CSS-tutorial)

   BTW You can find this tut on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLSccONlqbvweeB3Yju0qsBlkwucBLjdel) too.

## English

- [Understanding HTML and CSS by Anthony Alicea](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OjbM757s3vU)
